# cs-526-ncaa

## Data Setup: Note to Teammates

In order to set up the play-by-play and general game info, you need to run the script `data/create-pbp-data.R`. This is a script that only needs to be run once, and then the information will be saved as `.RData` objects in your local directory. **Note:** do *not* push these objects. They are far too large, and you will get GitHub errors when trying to do so. Since this script scrapes a lot of data, anticipate around 15 minutes to run it - it can be run in the background while you do other work.

Once the script is run, you will be able to access two objects from this script at `data/game_info.RData` and `data/pbp_data.RData`. Both objects are named lists of data frames - note that in R, to index into a list you need 2 sets of brackets, not just 1. Each list contains data for the last 10 NCAA tournaments (2014-2024, excluding 2020 when the tournament was canceled). Both objects are accessed by running `load("file-path.RData)`. The first object, `game_info`, is a named list of data frames all named `game_info_YEAR` (e.g., `game_info_2024`), and it contains information on each game generally in that year's tournament - who the teams were, referees, betting lines, final score, date, etc. The second object, `pbp_data`, is a named list of data frame all named `pbp_YEAR` (e.g., `pbp_2024`), and it contains play-by-play information for each game in that year's tournament. These objects are incredibly large, but also incredibly useful. You can read the documentation for `ncaahoopR`[https://github.com/lbenz730/ncaahoopR] in order to figure out exactly how to interpret this information.

Shortly, there will also be a `.py` file that recreates these lists as pandas data frames, if you would like to access them that way. However, you will still need to start with running these scripts in R. If you have not already installed it, you will need to install R - I also recommend installing R Studio, because that will make your life easier (but it is not strictly necessary). Before running the script, if you have never used R before, you will need to run the commands `install.packages("tidyverse")` and `install.packages("ncaahoopR")` (you may actually need to install devtools, since this is a package hosted on GitHub, not CRAN). Then the script will run properly.

One note: weirdly, two games are missing from 2017 - the very first games in the First Four (play-in) games. I am not super worried about this, but if somebody can resolve this issue and/or track down those data, that would be helpful. There is a similar issue with one of the First Four games from 2018.
